We're nearing the end of this module because we already learned a lot about the core concepts of expressjs
and this therefore is a crucial module because all the rest of the course will basically build up on
this and this knowledge of how expressjs works.
Now even though our dummy app here is really simple thus far, we're already putting all our code into
the single app.js file which is therefore getting bigger.
Now obviously for an app of this size, it's not a problem at all,
it's still pretty small but typically we want to split our routing code over multiple files,
we want to basically export our logic in different files and import it into this file.
We could do this, we could create files where we export these functions but expressjs actually gives
us a pretty nice way of outsourcing routing into other files.
And for this I'll change our folder structure a bit,
I'll add a new folder which I'll name routes.
Now you don't have to name this,
you could name it differently too
but it's a convention you often see, that you put your routing related code, so your code that should execute
four different paths and http methods, that you put that into files which you store in the routes folder
and there since we're building or we're slowly building towards an online shop here,
I'll have a route which I'll name admin.js because this should be the route that handles the creation
of products which the admin of the shop can do.
I'll also add another file and that will be shop.js,
so basically what the users see let's say. Now I'll not build the full shop here, we'll slowly develop it
over to the next lectures and modules because it uses a lot of cool features like databases and so on
but we can at least start putting our code into these files here. The add product route and this product
post request should certainly go into our admin.js file because these are routes that are reached
by the admin and the general route here should go into our shop.js file, so that users that are visiting
our front page see this route.
Now one convenient feature offered by expressjs to achieve this is to go into these files and import
express again, you can and you typically do import this into multiple files and then we can use a feature
of it called the router.
Now you can also create this with a lowercase r at the beginning, the name is totally up to you
and I do create that router by calling express.router and this is a function I execute.
This router is like a mini express app tied to the other express app or pluggable into the other express app
I'll say which we can export here,
so here I can use module exports and set it equal to the router.
Now of course this doesn't do much,
we have to use that router to now register things and actually I'll name this here with a lowercase
r to be in line with my other names,
this however has to have a capital case r.
So now the router here can be used to again define a use function for all requests, a get function
for get, post for post and so on
So basically we can go back to the app.js file, cut these two admin routes from there, put them in
here in the admin.js file and simply replace app with router here.
Now the router gets exported, so the router now has these two routes registered because we exported here
and this is the object on which we registered these routes, the other code can stay as it is because the
router functions here basically work in exactly the same way as the app use function does or the app
get and so on function does,
I'll rename this to get though because I only want to handle get requests to add product and return
this form
and with that, with this exported here, we can now import that into the app.js file.
Now for this, I'll add an import at the top separated from express to make sure or to make clear that
this is my own file and I'll name it admin routes, the name is totally up to you
but I do require a relative path to the routes folder and that in there, the admin file and you can
omit the .js as I already explained, this will be added automatically. So now this is
importing this router object here and this router object in turn has these routes registered and
the nice thing is about this router that it is actually a valid middleware function.
So we can take admin routes and just call app use and put our admin routes in there, just like this,
not calling it like a function,
so without parentheses but simply just the object itself, the router object we're exporting in this file.
We can use this here and now this will automatically consider our routes in the admin.js file when filing
the request through this middleware here.
Now just before, the order matters so if we put this after this middleware, we will never reach that
so this hasn't changed.
Now we can do the same for our front facing route here,
let's go to the shop.js file and there again, feel free to pause the video and try this on your own,
try to implement this with the express router as we just did in the admin.js file. Were you successful?
Let's import express first of all by requiring express, then let's create that router object by calling
express.router as a function,
let's export the router here
and let's then use app use or paste in what I copied but replace app with router and maybe use with
get. You don't have to do that, the use method would exist too but now we only handle get requests here.
Now we can go back to admin.js, excuse me, to app.js and import all routes there too, the order of the
imports doesn't matter,
so my shop routes I require them from the routes folder and there from the shop.js file
and now here again, the order matters, we should register this second.
Now if I save this and I reload add routes, add product, this works.
Now actually here's one important thing to understand,
even if I would switch the position here and have shop routes first and I reload, it would work and we
would not end up in this route
but this only happens because I have get here. Get, post and so on will actually do an exact match here.
If I would use use here as I did before to handle any incoming http method, then if I reload here we see
hello from express again.
So this exact matching is not achieved by using the router but because we use get here and that would
have been the same if we stick to the app way of doing this in the app.js file we had previously.
So get,
also make sure that it's not just a get method but this exact path and therefore
now if I enter some random stuff, I actually get an error because now I got no single middleware that
would handle this
but I do have my route set up here now and split up and then registered here
and as I mentioned, it's not the worst practice to still care about the order here
even though at the moment, it'll work fine no matter what the order is
but if you ever change something back to use, it would matter and therefore why don't we just care about
it right from the start.